Kickstart batch-minting tutorial (#256)
protocol/nft-website: docs/tutorial/batch-minting.md

---
title: Batch-minting NFTs on Ethereum 🚧
description: This tutorial addresses some techniques in batch-minting big numbers of Ethereum non-fungible tokens (NFTs) as well as common idioms of uploading files and metadata on to IPFS/Filecoin via nft.storage.
issueUrl: https://github.com/protocol/nft-website/issues/253
related: 'Lazy minting': https://nftschool.dev/tutorial/lazy-minting/
---
 # Batch-minting NFTs on Ethereum

 > TODO: Add missing links

 This tutorial addresses some techniques in batch-minting big numbers of Ethereum non-fungible tokens (NFTs) as well as common idioms of uploading files and metadata on to IPFS/Filecoin via nft.storage.

See also: [Lazy minting](./lazy-minting.md)

Quite often,  NFT projects consist of hundreds if not thousands of files and metadata starting their lives out on a computer file system, waiting nervously to be part of a mint.

There are many cases in which instead of minting NFTs just in time (or lazily) once the buyer has concluded a purchase, it is desirable to mint several all at once. Some common ones are:

- Event tickets
- Packs
- Game items

> In all these scenarios, NFTs are being treated closer to commodities than in the case in which collectors collect them as discrete artworks. Some challenges that lie in minting a batch of many tokens include exceedingly high gas fees on the Ethereum network, atomically synchronizing between mint and upload failures, and performance of uploading files to nft.storage, etc.

Reviewer: yeah 10K PFP drops are a big thing, i would consider softening the statement to saying that large drops are often for more than just art, or something along those lines

## Pre-processing and project structure

> TODO: Add content here

## Storage

> 

Reviewer: yeah - i'd outline the tradeoffs with going over iteratively (harder to manage all the CIDs, but potentially more resilient because you can retry individual uploads) vs. directory (easier to manage, but higher risk of something going wrong when you upload a large directory; also doing programmatically means you need to fit the whole directory in-memory, though you could use NFT Up to get around this)

I'd also mention that there's a new upload client coming in the coming weeks that will allow you to upload without memory constraints and more resiliency!

        const image = (await fetch(`$creature-{i}.jpg`)).blob()
        return {
          image,
          name: `$creature-{i}`,
          description: `Metadata of creature-${i}`,
        }
      })

  const client = new NFTStorage({ token })
  const results = await Promise.all(ps)

  await Promise.all(results.forEach((result) => {
    const metadata = await client.store(nft)
    console.log('NFT data stored!')
    console.log('Metadata URI: ', metadata.url)
  }))
}

```

### Upload directory of files

A straightforward way is to employ the [NFTStorage.storeDirectory]() method to upload all the files stored in a local directory. This method handles many things under the hood for you, including rate-limiting for each request.

```javascript

import path from 'path'
import { NFTStorage } from 'nft.storage'
import { fileFromPath } from 'files-from-path'

async function readAndUploadDir() {
  const files = filesFromPath(dirpath, {
		pathPrefix: path.resolve(dirpath),
		hidden: true,
	})
  const storage = new NFTStorage({ token })
  const cid = await storage.storeDirectory(files)
  const status = await storage.status(cid)

  console.log(status)
}

```

## Smart contracts

> 

Reviewer 2: Add a preface / summary here, like "Now that you've uploaded all the assets, you can choose from various contract standards to mint the tokens."

---
title: Batch-minting NFTs on Ethereum 🚧
description: This tutorial addresses some techniques in batch-minting big numbers of Ethereum non-fungible tokens (NFTs) as well as common idioms of uploading files and metadata on to IPFS/Filecoin via nft.storage.
issueUrl: https://github.com/protocol/nft-website/issues/253
related: 
  'Lazy minting': https://nftschool.dev/tutorial/lazy-minting/
---
 # Batch-minting NFTs on Ethereum

 > TODO: Add missing links

>  This tutorial addresses some techniques in batch-minting big numbers of Ethereum non-fungible tokens (NFTs) as well as common idioms of uploading files and metadata on to IPFS/Filecoin via nft.storage.

Reviewer: Should stylize as NFT.Storage

issueUrl: https://github.com/protocol/nft-website/issues/253
related: 
  'Lazy minting': https://nftschool.dev/tutorial/lazy-minting/
---

 # Batch-minting NFTs on Ethereum

 This tutorial addresses some techniques in batch-minting big numbers of Ethereum non-fungible tokens (NFTs) as well as common idioms of uploading files and metadata on to IPFS/Filecoin via NFT.storage.

See also: [Lazy minting](./lazy-minting.md)

Quite often,  NFT projects consist of hundreds if not thousands of files and metadata starting their lives out on a computer file system, waiting nervously to be part of a mint.

There are cases in which it is desirable to mint many NFTs all at once instead of doing each of them in a [just-in-time](./lazy-minting.md) fashion. Large single drops are often for more than just art, including scenarios like large PFP (profile picture) drops, event tickets, game packs, and etc.

Some challenges that lie in minting a bulk of NFTs include high gas fees on the Ethereum network, synchronizing between mint and upload failures and recovering from them, and performance of uploading files to NFT.storage, etc.

## Batch-uploading NFT assets

> Here is an overview of strategies to upload to NFT.storage in bulk.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is an overview of strategies you can choose from to upload to NFT.storage in bulk. 

### Drag-and-drop uploading with NFTUp
[NFTUp](https://nft.storage/blog/post/2022-04-05-announcing-nftup/) is a downloadable application for adding data to NFT.Storage. Content creators can drag-and-drop metadata and assets, from individual files to large directories. Once uploaded, they are ready to be minted into NFTs by smart contracts and then traded on marketplaces or browsed in galleries.

```

add section for NFTUp — according to @dchoi27 it's been popular and works well for bulk uploads

### Upload files iteratively

> The most straightforward, yet more involved way to upload files and metadata to NFT.storage is by iterating over all of them and calling [`NFTStorage.store`](https://nftstorage.github.io/nft.storage/client/classes/lib.NFTStorage.html#store) one-by-one. Being simple as it is, that means you are responsible for properly handling errors that might occur for each successive request and synchronize it with the minting process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most straightforward, yet more involved way to upload files and metadata to NFT.storage with code is by iterating over all of them and calling [`NFTStorage.store`](https://nftstorage.github.io/nft.storage/client/classes/lib.NFTStorage.html#store) one-by-one. While this seems straightforward on paper, it can create more complexity for your application. You are responsible for properly handling errors that might occur for each successive request and synchronize it with the minting process.
```

```javascript

async function readAndUpload() {
  const promises = Array.from({length: 10}, (v, i) => i)
      .map(async (i) => {
        const image = (await fetch(`$creature-{i}.jpg`)).blob()
        return {
          image,
          name: `$creature-{i}`,
          description: `Metadata of creature-${i}`,
        }
      })

  const client = new NFTStorage({ token })

>   const results = await Promise.all(ps)

Reviewer 3: Is this should be `const results = await Promise.all(promises)` ？

  await Promise.all(results.forEach((result) => {

>     const metadata = await client.store(nft)

Reviewer 3: I did not see any `nft` variable, is it should be `result`？

    console.log('NFT data stored!')
    console.log('Metadata URI: ', metadata.url)
  }))
}

```

### Upload directory of files

> A simpler way is to use the [NFTStorage.storeDirectory](https://nftstorage.github.io/nft.storage/client/classes/lib.NFTStorage.html#storeDirectory) method to upload all the files stored in a local directory. This method handles many things under the hood for you, including rate-limiting for each request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use the [NFTStorage.storeDirectory](https://nftstorage.github.io/nft.storage/client/classes/lib.NFTStorage.html#storeDirectory) method to upload all the files stored in a local directory.

This method handles many things under the hood for you, including rate-limiting for each request. [NFTStorage.storeDirectory](https://nftstorage.github.io/nft.storage/client/classes/lib.NFTStorage.html#storeDirectory) will shard the directory when it gets to a certain size, so if you have thousands of related files to upload you should definitely use this.
```

Reviewer 2: adds @alanshaw's notes from slack thread

```javascript

import path from 'path'
import { NFTStorage } from 'nft.storage'
import { fileFromPath } from 'files-from-path'

async function readAndUploadDir() {
  const files = filesFromPath(dirpath, {
		pathPrefix: path.resolve(dirpath),
		hidden: true,
	})
  const storage = new NFTStorage({ token })

>   const cid = await storage.storeDirectory(files)

Reviewer 3: Should we also be clear that using `storeDirectory` will only give you CID to that Folder. So developers still need to create metadata for their NFT collection and upload metadata again, right? 

Since `store` will take care of NFT assets as well as metadata, maybe we should give them more instructions if `storeDirectory` works different as `store`.

Reviewer 2: From @alanshaw:

> Note that `store` is for uploading ERC-721 compatible metadata, linked to NFT assets whereas `storeDirectory` and `storeBlob` just store raw asset data (you need to create your own metadata and link it correctly to the asset).

Seems important to clarify in this guide.

  const status = await storage.status(cid)

  console.log(status)
}

```

### Performance and Tradeoffs

Both `store` and `storeDirectory` methods calls [`storeCar`](https://nftstorage.github.io/nft.storage/client/classes/lib.NFTStorage.html#storecar) under the hood, which encode the payload to [CAR format (Content Addressable aRchives)](https://ipld.io/specs/transport/car/carv1/#summary) and upload to the `/upload` HTTP endpoint.

> A naive benchmark using 12 threads and 400 connections to `/upload` API endpoint (`store` and `storeDirectory` methods), ignoring errors and rate limits:

|  Thread Stats  |   Avg   |   Stdev   |   Max    |  +/- Stdev   |
|----------------|---------|-----------|----------|--------------|
|    Latency     | 52.44ms | 219.48ms  | 2.00s    | 95.86%       |
|    Req/Sec     | 6.44    |  8.60     | 60.00    | 89.44%       | -->

Comparing between two approaches, one can arrive at several comparisons.

#### Iterative upload with `store`

> - Take on average around 60% faster than `storeDirectory` on a single call to `store` with a single file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For a single file, it is about 60% faster to `store` a single file than to use `storeDirectory`.
```

> - Require sending multiple HTTP requests to `/upload` (1,000 files == 1,000 requests) which is prone to errors and triggering rate limit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Requires sending multiple HTTP requests to `/upload` (1,000 files == 1,000 requests) which is prone to errors and triggering rate limit
```

- End up with multiple CIDs to maintain for all the uploaded files

#### Directory upload with `storeDirectory`

- Slower than `store` on a single call to `storeDirectory` with a single file.

> - returning a single, versatile CID of the root directory that can be used to query other files under that directory

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Returns a single, versatile CID of the root directory that can be used to query other files under that directory
```

> *Note: Fungible-agnostic means the quality to be both fungible (breakable into small units and thus interchangeable) and non-fungible (atomic, non-breakable a.k.a NFTs)

ERC-1155’s `balanceOf` method differs from ERC20’s and ERC777’s—it has an additional `id` argument [`balanceOf(address account, uint256 id) -> uint256`](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/3.x/api/token/erc1155#IERC1155-balanceOf-address-uint256-). This `id` is not a conventional “token ID” of an NFT but a type ID.

Unlike ERC-721, whose [`balanceOf(address account)`](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/3.x/api/token/erc721#IERC721-balanceOf-address-) only counts the amount of a single token type represent by a single contract, ERC-1155 contract can holds many types of tokens, each with its own `id`. Non-fungible tokens are then implemented by simply minting a single one of them (one `id` for one NFT, thus unique).

### Batch operators

> The ERC-1155 standard provides two methods,`balanceOfBatch` and safeBatchTransferFrom that make querying multiple balances and transferring multiple tokens simpler and less gas-intensive. Especially the standard provided the function _mintBatch which allows batch minting of several token ids of any amount. For example, to batch-mint 100 NFTs, you would call it with an array of ids and amounts:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ERC-1155 standard provides two methods,`balanceOfBatch` and `safeBatchTransferFrom` that make querying multiple balances and transferring multiple tokens simpler and less gas-intensive. Especially the standard provided the function _mintBatch which allows batch minting of several token ids of any amount. For example, to batch-mint 100 NFTs, you would call it with an array of ids and amounts:
```

```solidity

ERC1155._mintBatch(receiverAddress, [5, 6, 7, 8, /* ... */, 105],  [1, 1, 1, 1, /* ... */ 1], "");

```

Because each id token is distinct, minting each one with the amount of 1 makes them non-fungible.

### Event tickets example

> To give you an example of minting event tickets as NFTs. As we sell the tickets, we do not necessarily want to mint each token for each sale. We may have a tiny server to keep track of who bought the tickets and mint them all just before the event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's take a look at an example: minting event tickets as NFTs. As we sell the tickets, we do not necessarily want to mint each token for each sale and pay individual gas. We may have a tiny server to keep track of who bought the tickets and mint them all just before the event.
```

Here is an implementation:

```solidity

// contracts/EventTickets.sol
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.6;

import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC1155/ERC1155.sol";

contract EventTickets is ERC1155 {
  // Declare all the type IDs
  uint256 public constant GENERAL = 0;
  uint256 public constant VIP = 1;
  uint256 public constant RSVP = 2;

  constructor() public ERC1155("ipfs://storage.link/bafyreidtc6fs4xrnc5b7klvvtrs2bsijkt54qqnonk54stkjj3rtdb5wee/{id}.json") {
    _mint(msg.sender, GENERAL, 10**2, "");
    _mint(msg.sender, VIP, 1, "");
    _mint(msg.sender, RSVP, 20, "");
  }
}

```

As you can see, the VIP ticket is an NFT because only a single one is minted, while the GENERAL (for general admission) and RSVP (for reserved seating) are fungible tokens.

We could, of course, replace the 3 calls to `_mint` with a single call to `_mintBatch` like so:

```solidity

_mintBatch(msg.sender, [GENERAL, VIP, RSVP], [10**2, 1, 20], "");

```

## Piggyback-minting for ERC-721 with Chainlink gas price feed

> For those who are stuck with ERC-721 contracts, batch-minting means going through an often tedious process of iterating minting calls, often blind to the gas penalties. To ease on the gas fee, one idea is to run a cron-like process that poll the current Ethereum gas price (gWei) using [Chainlink Fast Gas](https://data.chain.link/ethereum/mainnet/gas/fast-gas-gwei) price feed and use the windows of opportunity when the gas prices are low to mint in an asynchronous manner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For those who are stuck with ERC-721 contracts, batch-minting means going through an often tedious process of iterating minting calls, often blind to the gas penalties. To ease on the gas fee, one idea is to run a cron-like process to poll the current Ethereum gas price (gWei) using [Chainlink Fast Gas](https://data.chain.link/ethereum/mainnet/gas/fast-gas-gwei) price feed and use the windows of opportunity when the gas prices are low to mint in an asynchronous manner.
```

        _setTokenURI(newItemId, tokenURI);
        _tokenIds.increment();

        // Tide is high! Let's mint the backlogs while the gas price is low.
        if (backlogs.length > 0) {
          for (uint i=0; i<backlogs.length; i++) {
            _mint(backlogs[i].player, backlogs[i].tokenURI);
            _tokenIds.increment();
            _setTokenURI(_tokenIds.current(), backlogs[i].tokenURI);
          }
        }

      } else {
        backlogs.push(Unminted(player, tokenURI));
      }

      return newItemId;
  }

  function getLatestGasPrice() publivc view returns (uint256)  {
    var (_roundId, answer, _startedAt, _updatedAt, _answeredInRound) = gasfeed.latestRoundData();
    return answer;
  }
}

```

To deploy the contract, don't forget to pass the Chainlink’s aggregator contract address into deploy function of the contract factory:

```javascript

const AGGREGATOR_ADDRESS = "0x169E633A2D1E6c10dD91238Ba11c4A708dfEF37C"
let GameItemFactory = await ethers.getContractFactory("GameItem")
let gameItem = await GameItemFactory.deploy(AGGREGATOR_ADDRESS)
await gameItem.deployed()
console.log(`GameItem deployed to: ${gameItem.address}`)

```

### ERC-721A: An Alternative

> [ERC-721A](https://www.erc721a.org/) is an alternative ERC-721 implementation by the Azuki NFT development team. It was designed primarily for batch-minting with very low gas fees compared to conventional ERC-721 and ERC-1155. According to the developers, the new algorithm enables minting multiple NFTs for essentially the same cost as minting a single NFT at the expense of more complexity by means of several optimization tactics, such as removal of duplicate storage from OpenZeppelin’s ERC721Enumerable and updating the owner’s balance and other data once per batch mint request instead of per minted NFT.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[ERC-721A](https://www.erc721a.org/) is an alternative ERC-721 implementation by the Azuki NFT development team. It was designed primarily for batch-minting with very low gas fees compared to conventional ERC-721 and ERC-1155. According to the developers, the new algorithm enables minting multiple NFTs for essentially the same cost as minting a single NFT at the expense of more complexity by means of several optimization tactics, such as removal of duplicate storage from OpenZeppelin’s ERC721Enumerable and updating the owner’s balance and other data once per batch mint request instead of per minted NFT. This is a relatively new standard, so please take particular care to evaluate risks and possibilities before choosing it.
```

## Conclusion

> There is a few ways to approach batch-upload and -minting hundreds or thousands of your NFTs and their assets on NFT.storage and Ethereum. However, the most recommended way is to employ `uploadDirectory` to upload files on NFT.storage and `ERC-1155` for batch-minting on Ethereum.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are multiple ways to approach batch-upload and -minting hundreds or thousands of your NFTs and their assets on NFT.storage and Ethereum. However, the most recommended way is to employ `uploadDirectory` or NFTUp to upload files on NFT.storage, and `ERC-1155` for batch-minting on Ethereum.
```

do you mean storeDirectory (not uploadDirectory)?

Author: @Yes that was a typo.
